[example] Add example of undefined input vs null (#785)
ExpediaGroup/graphql-kotlin: docs/schema-generator/execution/optional-undefined-arguments.md

---
id: optional-undefined-arguments
title: Optional Undefined Arguments
---

> In GraphQL, input types can be optional when you mark them as nullable in Kotlin. This means that the client can either:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In GraphQL, input types can be optional which means that the client can either:
```

* Not specify a value at all
* Send null explictly
* Send the non-null type

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Optional input types are represented as nullable parameters in Kotlin
```

```kotlin
fun optionalInput(value: String?): String? = value
```

```graphql
query OptionalInputQuery {
  undefined: optionalInput
  null: optionalInput(value: null)
  foo: optionalInput(value: "foo")
}
```

> By default if an optional input value is not specified, then the execution engine will set the argument in Kotlin to `null`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, if an optional input value is not specified, then the execution engine will set the argument in Kotlin to `null`.
```

This means that you can not tell, by just the value alone, whether the request did not contain any argument or the client explicitly passed in `null`.

> Instead you should inspect the [DataFetchingEnvironment](./data-fetching-environment.md) where you can see if the request had the variable defined and even check parent arguments as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, you should inspect the [DataFetchingEnvironment](./data-fetching-environment.md) where you can see if the request had the variable defined and even check parent arguments as well.
```
